# Technical-code-related-to-wind-turbine-blade-cracking-early-failure-detection
  Detection tasks based on supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) data are challenging because of the following problems: (i) high redundancy and high non-linearity of data complicate the detection task; (ii) because the sheer volume of data, the current methods are hard to accurately detect useful early fault information from raw data. We propose to use a method called parallel multiple CNNs with temporal predictions (PMCTP) for wind turbine blade cracking early fault detection.
  Different from the traditional single-branch input, PMCTP is designed with two mixed branches with parallel inputs (SCADA data from one branch goes directly to feature extraction and SCADA data from the other branch goes through TCN for prediction before entering feature extraction). Because of the high redundancy, high non-linearity, and excessive data from wind turbines, pre-processing of the data is required. In the proposed network model, pre-processed data on the four categories of state parameters of the wind turbine are fed into ResNet50 and Xception, respectively for adaptive feature extraction. The classification probabilities obtained from parallel 8-branch feature extraction are then sent to multiple fully connected layers for fusion. 
  To reduce the computational memory footprint, this study converts the data pre-processed during neural network training sorted into folders named after the two types of labels at storage time to facilitate subsequent input to the feature extraction network for training and testing.
  the proposed PMCTP steps are as follows.
(1)	SCADA data are fed into two input branches in parallel.
(2)	SCADA data from one of the branches is put into the TCN for prediction.
(3)	The raw SCADA data from both branches are subdivided into four categories according to the different status parameters of the turbine: motor data, inverter data, other data, and blade data.
(4)	A total of four categories of state parameter data are subjected to adaptive feature extraction utilizing ResNet50, ResNet50, ResNet50, and Xception, respectively.
(5)	The classification probabilities output from the parallel eight-branch feature extraction network are fed into a designed multiple fully connected layers for fusion, and then the fused results are fed into a softmax layer.

